In case the reader does not have access to a MATLAB installation, we provide the compiled
version of the five programs POINCARE, HAMILTON, LAGRANGE, KEPLER, and LAPLACE.

Four of them are fully working as they are, the exception being KEPLER which requires the
symbolic toolbox that cannot be compiled. We provide a workaround, delegating the task to
an external program. The user simply needs to install PYTHON, a powerful, complete, and
totally free program which contains a module for symbolic manipulation. We strongly
recommend installing the PYTHON distribution called ANACONDA, downloading it from
<https://www.anaconda.com/download/>. This distribution
contains already everything you need. Once installed in Windows, make sure that PYTHON is
in the PATH, after which it will work transparently, making KEPLER completely similar to
the other four programs. The things are a bit more complicated in Linux, since it appears
that MATLAB does not inherit the operating system's PATH. We were therefore forced to
freeze the PYTHON working directory at compile time, consequently it is mandatory to
install ANACONDA in "/user/bruno/anaconda3".

In the interpreted case, the "Perturbative method" of KEPLER is in general the better
choice for the numerical integration of an ODE. Conversely, for technical reasons
(The point is that all functions are frozen in the compilation process and can
not be updated dynamically. This fact forces us to use handles to anonymous functions
instead to regular functions, thus preventing the adoption of some tricks that speed up
the reading of the right-hand member of the ODE.) the "Non perturbative method" is more
performing in the compiled case. Try and experiment.

The compiled files for Windows10 or Windows11 are "Name.exe", where "Name" is one of
the five program names, with only the initial letter capitalized. For LinuxMint21 the
name is simply "Name", without extension. In order to run the compiled programs, the
user must first install a sort of "scrambled" --- but free of charge --- MATLAB
version, named "Runtime". To this end, from
<https://mathworks.com /products/compiler/matlab-runtime.html> download the
<Release (MATLAB Runtime Version\#) R2023b (23.2)>, unzip and install,
following the instructions on the page.

In Windows the five programs can be started with a double click on "Name.exe" or
by typing it in a DOS window. In Linux type "run_Name.sh}. Useful informations
about the progress of the computation and on how it is shared among the various cores are
displayed in a terminal window. You can also create a link on the desktop, with an icon
taken from the folder "Portraits", colored for the "Master" and grey for the
"SlaveX". Take into account that opening a compiled program requires some minutes: be
patient.

It is mandatory to preserve the file structure for the compiled versions; in particular,
do NOT move the executables. For the rest, follow the same instructions already
given for the interpreted version. We stress that also with the compiled version the user
can parallelize the work, sharing the computation among several cores.

Lastly, if you can temporarily access a MATLAB installation, the files "Compile_Win.prj"
and "Compile_Linux.prj" allow you to compile again the relevant and
eventually modified program. Warning: to prevent confusion, the modified programs
cannot be redistributed publicly. To compile:
- Open Matlab in PhaseSpaceGeography
- Add to path by right-clicking on: "AddedODEsolver" with subfolders,
  "Util"  with subfolders, "Portraits", and  "POINCARE/Master"  with subfolders
- Go to "AppDesigner/POINCARE/Master".
- If exists open "Compile_Win.prj" or "Compile_Linux.prj", if not, create
  it with: "Apps/Application compiler".
- Add "Poincare_source.mlapp" in "Add main file": automatic popup  after a few seconds
  (of some) of the required files. In case, manually add the missing ones.
- In Windows uncheck: "Do not display the Windows Command ...".
- In case complete the rest of the window.
- Save as "Compile_Win.prj" or "Compile_Linux.prj".
- In case change the folders in "Settings" and save again.
- Click on "Package": the folder "Compiled" is created; it contains some folders
  and files, in particular the executables "Poincare.exe" (for Windows)
  or "Poincare" and "run_Poincare.sh" (for Linux): copy
  these executable(s) in "Master" and in all the "SlaveX".
